marianath
and duke of edinburgh and
knight companion of our most noble order
of the garter
winston still thinks he's the father of
the nation
i elizabeth alexander mary
take thee phillip take thee phillip
to love and cherish and obey
till death us do part
till death us do part happy to say the
procedure went well
and that his majesty's immediate
postoperative condition is
satisfactory party has won the election
and as as their sovereign
i invite you to form a government in my
name
it was a tumor a malignant tumor
it could be years
more likely months
which brings me to the forthcoming
commonwealth tour i was wondering if you
would
consider stepping into my shoes my work
is as a naval officer not grinning like
a dimension
while you
this is your time the country needs a
younger more dynamic man
ahead of them lay a 30 000 mile trip
that will take them in five months to
four continents
the journey which but for his illness
the king himself
[Music]
together to mourn king george the
we are comforted by the knowledge that
he spent his final hours in the happy
company
of his wife and youngest daughter the
princess been
notified if you mean the new queen
my understanding is not and i suggest we
do so
decide here and now on your name
my name is elizabeth he fell asleep
as every man or woman
who strives to fear god and nothing else
in the world you're no longer their king
as a private individual oh no one wants
to hear from a private individual
i discharged my last duty as king
and emperor
and now that i have been succeeded by my
brother i have crossed the atlantic
for the funeral of the dear brother
and to comfort her majesty queen mary
get the two things we discussed the
children keeping my surname yes
and of staying here in clarence's house
not moving to buckingham palace both
very important
they say hell is an inferno what a
sunless frozen hell
we both escaped in england
what a bunch of ice veined monsters my
family are
i know your party wants you to resign
to make way for a younger man mr eden
this am i to be the only man in the
country whose wife and children don't
take his name you can't do this to dick
clarence house our home we have to give
it up
the home of the sovereignty of the
united kingdom is buckingham palace
and that my descendants shall bear the
name
of windsor
issued a statement saying that a
persistent anti-cyclone
over london is to blame smoke from the
capitals chimneys is being trapped at
street level which is aggravating the
fog
power stations we need the coal people
need to burn
coal to warm their homes it is weather
it will pass winston people are angry
they see us as the culprits culpable for
what it's for
even among his own people the feeling is
that our prime minister is not able to
deal with a national crisis
as prime minister immediate effect
more money for hospital staff
more money for equipment and a full
and independent public inquiry into the
causes
of air pollution i'd like you to come
aboard my coronation committee
in which capacity as chairman
of course the royal family is obliged to
extend an invitation to you
as a royal duke but that obligation does
not extend to the duchess of windsor
well at last it's all over
mama took ill in the afternoon then
began hemorrhaging in the early hours
i'll support you in the turn rising
on one condition
that you kneel
so when his divorce came through in
december last year i suppose it was only
natural that we both
started thinking about what kind of
future but will you know
mary yes
i've given margaret my word and i'm
determined to support her
following consultation with the
government the foreign office and her
majesty's press secretary
the decision has been taken to move
forward your posting to brussels with
immediate effect
but that isn't what was agreed how could
you
margaret
i would hate to think that the country
wasn't in safe hands
being led by healthy men we are both
fine ma'am
i assure you
that's all a minor stroke who knows no
one
and no one can't know especially the
queen president eisenhower is due to
meet the prime minister
in washington for summit next week but
mr churchill's developed a cold
my prime minister was incapacitated
and the foreign secretary too
and that you colluded in keeping that
information from institutions
only work when they support
each other breaking of that trust
was irresponsible see you when you're
back from the tour
in 23 weeks and since i shall be
deputizing for my sister tonight
i was wondering if i might make one or
two minor adjustments to the text
you can't use a public occasion to take
a dig at your sister like that
you start too it's just the palace won't
you like it
the minute you become yourself you
shatter the illusion break the spell
you can't seriously be comparing this to
the abdication
no but i've decided that all remaining
royal engagements in the queen's
absence should be carried out by the
queen mother the brief was simple
perform minor ceremonial tasks with the
minimum of fuss
not end up all over the newspapers
who the painter the paint or portrait
what portrait it's the official portrait
commissioned by both houses
for the very last time winston
to bid you to stand up i will in good
time
at the right time are you winning
i hope sir
you think i'll like it i
think that's possibly too much to ask
[Applause]
and i cannot go on you've said that
before
and this time i mean it i'm tired my
confidence
in sir anthony is complete be able to
hold the place
of my first prime minister wait two
years
but now that i am 25 and free to decide
for myself whom i will marry
great pleasure and pride that i say
i am still committed to peter would you
hate the idea
going to australia before to open the
olympic games when i didn't mean with me
i meant alone
my name the issue of your marriage has
for the past weeks and months gone to
the very heart of a
great number of things
but i realized
as queen
that i have no choice
i cannot allow you to marry peter i will
never forgive her
and i will never marry anyone else they
now suggest i combine opening the games
with raw tour
stay away even longer five months
long way to go
[Music]
you